With all that out of the way, we're
gonna get into more complex things and
start growing both our JavaScript and
our CSS a little bit.
And so we wanna stay organized
with what we're doing.
We're gonna start by filtering the guide.
And I'm gonna copy this selector here
just to show you how it works, instead of
writing it out, cuz I'd probably make
a mistake, because it's kind of complex.
But I just wanna show you that it's
possible to create filters using CSS only,
and then caution against doing it,
because there's lots of CSS-only
solutions out there that do work.
Since I'm not gonna keep this,
I'm not gonna put it in a layer,
I'm just gonna put it at the bottom here.
And I'll explain what this is doing.
This is actually one
selector on multiple lines,
but I broke it down
because it's really long.
And this is using has, which is CSS.
So I'm looking at my mushroom guide,
if my mushroom guide has the ID of season.
So if we come look here in our guide,
the guide is up higher,
I didn't put the IDs on them,
on this select, I will add the ID=season.
And on this select,
we can add an ID= edible.
And so, I can say if the mushroom
guide has a season and the value of
the season that is spring is the checked
one, so it's actually the selected one.
So we can go and do that,
we'll scroll up to our list,
talking about scrolling a lot.
That's our spring.
So I can select my spring, and
then we can say that the card, so a child
that's a card, that's not has data season
spring, and we can filter it that way.
And it doesn't look like it
actually worked right now.
Did I save my file?
I didn't, there we go.
It's filtered and
I only have my two spring ones.
And I'm just saying that it's
a display none in that situation.
And so I could actually copy this and
paste it and
then do the same thing for
summer and summer.
And it's going to work.
But nobody's gonna understand
what the selector's doing.
And it's one of those things, like, I like
playing with this stuff cuz I like playing
with weird selectors and
seeing what you can do.
And there is value in learning
how these things work and
understanding how this works, and
it just gives you a deeper understanding
of has and a little bit more of CSS.
But nobody's really gonna
like what you're doing here.
We're doing DOM manipulation with CSS,
where you start having to
ask is this really simpler than
writing a few lines of JavaScript?
JavaScript tends to be really good
at making changes to the DOM.
So it's like I could do it this way, but
this is a really complex way to do it.
And it actually limits some of the things
that I'm going to be able to do as well.
If we wanna do animations or
do other things.
I've actually spent a lot of time playing
with, trying to animate this, and
it just becomes a time suck.
And when you start doing that, that's like
the red flag that you should throw when
you're coming up these
ridiculous selectors.
Again for learning purposes, fantastic.
If you're just experimenting, go for it.
But if you're pushing it to production and
you're just coming up with
these crazy things and you're
breaking your head and you're having
to go through these really complex
solutions to get something to work,
that's probably a red flag that there's
an easier way to do it somehow else.
And with CSS-only solutions also, in this
situation it probably would be okay for
an accessibility standpoint,
but you want to be really careful when
there's user interaction with something.
We saw that with our navigation
that we were opening and
closing where we had to
change our area expanded.
There's ways of doing that
type of thing with CSS only.
There's the checkbox hack that was very
popular for that type of thing for
a while, but
there's accessibility concerns with that.
And when you're trying to deal with
User interaction with CSS only,
usually you're missing something along
the way in terms of being able to pass
the extra information that's required.
So as much as I love CSS and
I wish I could only do CSS all the time,
in this case, I won't suggest
doing the CSS only solution.
I would instead suggest doing a little bit
of Javascript to do the filtering instead.